---
layout: page
title: PhD. Thesis
---

Android is a versatile and attractive environment for developing embedded
systems with a set of applications that is growing well beyond the original
market segment its designers had envisioned. The medical industry has invested
significant resources in exploring Android as a platform for on-demand,
personalized medical devices, *e.g.*, handicap assistive devices, heart
monitors, glucose analyzers, fall detectors. The robotic community is also
developing control or sensing applications on Android-equipped smartphones,
including autopilot control, audio-based indoor localization, harmonized sound
reproduction and *etc*.

___RTDroid___ presents a real-time extension on Android for real-time
applications, which require strict timing guantantee while still leveraging
existing functionalities on Android. More specifically, RTDroid provides a
real-time software stack seperating from the original Android stack and
isolates intererences from non-real-time (Non-RT) apps to real-time (RT) apps
while still enabling interaction. Thereby, the development of real-time apps
can utilize existing functionalities of Android on RTDroid. RTDroid leverages a
real-time kenel, a real-time Java virtual machine and redesgined real-time
framework.


### Real-Time Kernel and Real-Time Java Virtual Machine:

We ___partially___ patched the Android customised Linux kernel with Linux-RT
patch, including real-time scheduling plocies, synchronisation primitives. We
enable priority awareness in task scheduling and locking as well as basic
syscalls for user spaces.


We have ported an existing real-time Java virtual machine, FijiVM, on
Android-based Linux kernel for the real-time runtime environment. It provides
basic real-time Java programming APIs for the development of RTDroid framework
and has an Ahead-Of-Time (AOT) compiler for static compilation which takes
source codes of RTDroid and generates a native binary file.


### Real-Time Programming Model

RTDroid provides a redesigned real-time framework implementation for
application abstraction and communication APIs. It presents our solution as a
real-time programming model that extends Android's baisc application components
for real-time development. Our programming model consists of real-time
components for application expressiveness, real-tiime channels for interaction
and real-time menifest schema for component declarations.

To prevent interferences from the runtime memory management, we alter the
conventional garbage collection to an on-stack memory management inspired by
the scope memory of RTSJ. The on-stack memory management perseves memory bound
for object allocation for each component, which assures constant cost for
memory reclamation and prevents dangling reference by using runtime assginment
checks.

From a developer's point of view, our real-time components extend Android
components for application development, the real-time application manifest is
similar to the Android manifest for component declaration and real-time
parameter configuration. Thereby, the real-time parameters are used for
scheduling validation and model checking.


### Static Application Validation

RTDroid integrates its application manifest with Cheddar*, a
real-time scheduling analysis tool, for static application validation. We
utilize real-time parameters configured in the RTDroidâ€™s application manifest
and feed these parameters into Cheddar for feasibility analysis, including
schedulability, memory usage and communication channel overflow.


More details can be found at [RTDroid website](http://rtdroid.cse.buffalo.edu)
and the full version of my thesis will be available soon.

---
\* For more information about
[Cheddar](http://beru.univ-brest.fr/~singhoff/cheddar/).

